# todo-or-not

> TODO or not to do, that is the question

TODO Or Not (#todoon) is, in essence, a simple tool that checks your project for TODO's and FIXME's. You can also integrate this tool into your GitHub workflow via actions, and automate generating issues from the discovered TODO's and FIXME's.

## Examples

Check out [this example code](https://github.com/Start-Out/todo-or-not/blob/main/example.py) and the [issues that it yielded](https://github.com/Start-Out/todo-or-not/issues?q=is%3Aissue+author%3Aapp%2Ftodo-or-not+label%3Aexample+)!

## Usage

### CLI

[[Generated by Typer, thanks Typer!](https://github.com/tiangolo/typer)]

```
Usage: todo_check.py [OPTIONS]                                              
                                                                            
Options:                                                                    
  --mode TEXT             [default: print]                                  
  --silent / --no-silent  [default: no-silent]                              
  --force / --no-force    [default: no-force]                               
  --ni TEXT               Copy the contents of other files into a new .todo-
                          ignore                                            
  --xi TEXT               Copy the contents of other files into an existing 
                          .todo-ignore                                      
  --help                  Show this message and exit.       
```

--mode PRINT
: The default configuration, will print the discovered issues to stderr

--mode ISSUE
: Will generate issues and submit them via the [gh cli](https://cli.github.com/), with checks (see [Issues](#issues))

--silent
: Do not exit with a non-zero exit code, even if TODOs and/or FIXMEs are found

--force
: Run todo_check without a .todo-ignore. NOT RECOMMENDED! There could be a lot of files in there.

--ni FILENAME
: Copy the contents of other files into a **N**EW [.todo-ignore](#todo-ignore), this option must be specified for each. e.g. `--ni .gitignore --ni .prettierignore`

--xi FILENAME
: Copy the contents of other files into a E**X**ISTING [.todo-ignore](#todo-ignore), this option must be specified for each. e.g. `--ni .gitignore --xi .prettierignore`

### Environment Variables

MAXIMUM_ISSUES_GENERATED
: _default: 8_ <br> If in ISSUE mode, will exit the todo_check after a certain number of issues have been generated.

PERTINENT_LINE_LIMIT
: _default: 8_ <br> The greatest number of surrounding lines (in each direction) that will be collected in the body of an issue generated in ISSUE mode (fewer may be gathered if they are broken up by blank lines)

### .todo-ignore

This file specifies which files and directories that todo_check doesn't need to walk through or analyze. It follows the same syntax as a .gitignore file.

### Issues

Issues are generated up to a limit (see [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)) and contain the line which contains the TODO or FIXME and up to `$MAXIMUM_ISSUES_GENERATED` of the preceding and following lines. See [Examples](#examples) for a good representation of how these look.

Issue generation is best supported from GitHub actions, the YAML included in this repository generates the necessary credentials and keeps them safe for you, so it's the most recommended option. However, if you wish to run this elsewhere, you must supply valid values to each of the following environment variables:

- GITHUB_REPOSITORY
- GITHUB_REF
- GITHUB_TRIGGERING_ACTOR
